# Dr. Brandon Sepulvado - Guest Speaker

## Lecture Date: November 4, 2024 (9:30 AM - 10:20 AM)

Dr. Brandon Sepulvado is a senior research methodologist in the Methodology & Quantitative Social Sciences department at NORC at the University of Chicago. He leads work in natural language processing (NLP), research on research and science evaluation, and research data infrastructure. Brandon’s NLP work leverages advanced methods, such as deep learning and named-entity recognition, to generate meaningful insights from a wide range of text data, such as social media, administrative records, and surveys, and Brandon’s considerable expertise in data infrastructure allows him to help clients make their data assets secure, accessible, and interoperable. As a sociologist, he uses a deep knowledge of research on research to help clients across sectors monitor and evaluate investments in science, technology, and innovation.
Brandon’s data science work focuses on NLP and data infrastructure. NLP examples include using named-entity recognition to identify new e-cigarette brands and flavors on social media and developing text classifiers to monitor commercial smokeless tobacco campaigns across social media platforms. His work has entailed the use of deep learning to build a recommender system connecting synthetic biologists with information concerning the ethical and societal implications of their research as well as the development of tools—using algorithms such as topic models and stochastic blockmodels—to process open-ended responses to large-scale surveys. Brandon is helping the NCSES to establish a research data infrastructure integrating survey, administrative, and bibliometric data about the scientific workforce. He was Principal Investigator on a team of experts across the U.S. to develop the Synthetic Biology Knowledge System, which aims to provide a single interface that transforms the way researchers access diverse types of synthetic biology data.

- [More about Dr. Brandon Sepulvado](https://www.norc.org/about/experts/brandon-sepulvado.html)

[Back to Main Page](../README.md)
